it all starts with the relationships we
have with the many farmers throughout
the United States and Canada who supply
us with the top-quality grains our
customers have come to expect from Bob's
Red Mill because we work hard to develop
and maintain long term relationships
with the farmers who supply our grain
were able to depend on timely deliveries
from farm to mill in fact daily
shipments of fresh from the farm grains
allow us to keep up with the growing
demand for our products this grain truck
is pulling into our beautiful new 325
thousand square foot facility in
Milwaukie Oregon this huge building and
the 17 acres it sits on are used
exclusively for the operations of Bob's
Red Mill natural foods and when the
grain arrives our work begins it's a
process that occurs entirely in our
facility with the Bob's Red Mill crew
working on every phase of production
from start to finish well before our
customers can enjoy any of our finished
products we transfer the grain shipments
from the loaded truck to our grain
cleaning room there five
state-of-the-art grain cleaning machines
are busy turning fresh from the farm
grains into clean staples that make up
our finished products after cleaning all
grain is quality check to ensure it
meets our table ready standards all of
Bob's Red Mill flours cereals and meals
are tested during production to ensure
the consistently high quality products
our customers have come to expect our
cereal chemists test all incoming grains
to ensure they meet our rigid
specifications and all gluten-free
products are tested and verified to
elisa standards
the picture you're looking at now
demonstrates the methodology of reducing
the grain to its basic components and
with other tests assures that protein
fiber minerals and vitamins are present
in the proper quantities in our various
whole-grain products
after extensive testing of all greens
the final proof is performance every day
we bake bread pan cakes and cookies with
Bob's Red Mill ingredients there is
always keen interest on the part of the
office staff when it's time to sample
each day's freshly baked wholesome
whole-grain treats the free negraph test
is both interesting and fascinating it
measures the specific quality of gluten
in bread flour we do this test on every
new load of hard red spring wheat Nettie
is showing me readings of a very
excellent bread week that we recently
contracted for knowing what we have is
very important than basic to the
functioning of a flour mill and
supplying our customers with the proper
ingredients once the grain is cleaned
inspected and verified is table ready it
finds a home in one of our 17 100,000
pound storage tanks where it awaits the
next phase of its journey from grain to
wholesome whole grain flours cereals and
meals this is one of our three mill
rooms 24 hours a day these Danish built
stone grinding mills turn clean table
ready grains and the pure fresh flowers
and meals that make up our wide
selection of healthy whole grain
products
one of the secrets of Bob's Red Mill
success is literally set in stone
instead of modern milling methods that
use pulverizers hammer Mills steel
roller mills or steel Burr Mills we use
the same type of quartz mill stones used
by master Millers since early Roman
times in fact some of the mill stones we
use at Bob's Red Mill are more than a
hundred years old these stones and our
new Danish mill stones are made from
quartz quarried near Paris France where
the best mill stones in the world have
originated for over two thousand years
to create superior ground flowers and
meals we dress or sharpen each mill
stone on a regular schedule
flour is milled and held in our sanitary
storage tanks until it is packaged
product cycle through to packaging in
less than 24 hours here we see two of
our four large mixers used to make our
wide variety of pancakes and muffin
mixes and multi grain cereals as you can
see the finished mix goes into two
thousand pound super bags super bags
allow us to efficiently mill mix and
package over 200 specialty whole grain
products with ease besides the
convenient pre pack sizes we package all
our products in twenty five and fifty
pound bags grocery stores with bulk bins
bakeries and food service companies
purchase bob's red mill products in
twenty five and fifty pound bags as you
see here
we have a wonderful engineering
electrical and maintenance staff to keep
our many milling and packaging machines
running 24 hours a day the following
scenes will show you the extent to which
we've gone in designing engineering and
building many of our own unique
packaging and milling machines most of
the machinery rebuild is clean and
sanitary stainless steel we have a state
licensed electrical engineer on staff
were established for the state of Oregon
and we have several maintenance folks in
our journeyman electrician program we
have many ongoing programs for training
to ensure that all our machinery is
functioning to its maximum the packaging
process is directed by the team in our
production department every phase of
production occurs in our factory this
includes twelve dedicated packaging
lines that produce over two hundred and
sixty thousand single units in four pack
cases ready for shipment every 24 hours
over the many years Bob's Red Mill has
been in business we have continually
grown and upgraded to the latest
state-of-the-art machinery here you see
one of our newest packaging lines custom
designed to package Bob's Red Mill
rolled grains all the lines include
state of the art form and fill machinery
the product passes through metal
detection check way in several other
safety checks we have developed a very
popular four pack shipping carton that
incorporates a shelf tray which you will
see throughout all the markets in the
United States product quality is
paramount in our business
as I work a full schedule in my aeneas
year some of my most enjoyable moments
are times of communication with all my
wonderful people Mike is our second
shift plant manager and does a wonderful
job of keeping the whole facility
operating on his ship from our hundred
and sixty thousand square foot
distribution warehouse orders for our
freshly milled products are filled and
prepared for delivery to retailers
around the world our customers trucks
arrive from early morning to evening to
pick up full truckloads of wholesome
Bob's Red Mill products for sale in
their grocery chains there's not a
single grocery chain in the United
States and Canada where you cannot find
Bob's Red Mill products on the show the
convenience of our new facility with 40
loading docks means our customers trucks
can get in and out in a timely way